[21.01] Release Notes for 21.01 (#11379)
galaxyproject/galaxy: doc/source/releases/21.01_announce.rst

  The performance of reading tool wrappers when starting Galaxy has been much improved. We have therefore decided to disable the tool document cache by default,
  since it only provides negligible speedups (`Pull Request 10804`_, `Pull Request 11447`_). The tool document cache can be re-enabled with the `enable_tool_document_cache <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/blob/283ec1772fcc0e574997dc2c5ad12dc86e3e1d37/lib/galaxy/config/sample/galaxy.yml.sample#L626>`_ setting.

**Offload Zip Archive Creation to NGINX**
  Galaxy can now utilize the NGINX module `mod_zip <https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/modules/zip/>`__ to assemble and compress dataset collection and library dataset archives on the fly.
  This method is more efficient and can create large archives without affecting the Galaxy server process. The required setup is described in the admin documentation for `proxying Galaxy with NGINX <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/release_21.01/admin/nginx.html#creating-archives-with-mod-zip>`__.

**Workflow Enhancements and Fixes**

>   This release contains many new features, enhancements and bug fixes for creating, running and reporting workflows described in greater details in the `21.01 user release notes <21.01_announce_user.html>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This release contains many new features, enhancements and bug fixes for creating, running and reporting workflows described in greater detail in the `21.01 user release notes <21.01_announce_user.html>`__
```

**History Import and Export**
  Histories can now be imported from and exported to the pluggable file source architecture introduced in the 20.09 release of Galaxy.

>   This includes the users' FTP folder, S3, dropbox, owncloud etc. In addition the History Export and Import dialogues have been rewritten

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This includes the users' FTP folder, S3, Dropbox, ownCloud etc. In addition the History Export and Import dialogues have been rewritten
```

  to provide access to these new options and to provide more feedback during Import and Export process.

Also check out the `21.01 user release notes <21.01_announce_user.html>`__

Deprecation Notices
===========================================================

**Deprecation of support for Python 3.5**

>   Galaxy requires Python 3.6 or newer. Instruction for updating Python can be found in the `Supported Python versions <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/release_21.01/admin/python.html#supported-python-versions>`__ section of the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Galaxy requires Python 3.6 or newer. Instructions for updating Python can be found in the `Supported Python versions <https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/release_21.01/admin/python.html#supported-python-versions>`__ section of the documentation.
```

  Note that if you update to Python 3.7.2 or newer you need to set py-call-osafterfork to ``false`` in the uwsgi section of galaxy.yml.

**Removal of IUC conda channel from default configuration**

>   The IUC conda channel has been removed from the default configuration. This channel was used for installing dependencies that were old and not available in bioconda or conda-forge. These dependencies are now available in Bioconda. By removing this channel Conda can work more efficiently and ignore outdated dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The IUC conda channel has been removed from the default configuration. This channel was used for installing dependencies that were old and not available in bioconda or conda-forge. These dependencies are now available in bioconda. By removing this channel Conda can work more efficiently and ignore outdated dependencies.
```
I think in both cases "bioconda" should be lowercased as it refers to the name of a channel. I think uppercasing "Conda" in the second sentence is correct.

>   If you have specified alternative channels in your Galaxy configuration we recommend remving the iuc channel from the `conda_ensure_channels <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/blob/283ec1772fcc0e574997dc2c5ad12dc86e3e1d37/lib/galaxy/config/sample/galaxy.yml.sample#L324>`__ variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you have specified alternative channels in your Galaxy configuration we recommend removing the iuc channel from the `conda_ensure_channels <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/blob/283ec1772fcc0e574997dc2c5ad12dc86e3e1d37/lib/galaxy/config/sample/galaxy.yml.sample#L324>`__ variable.
```

**Removal of the communication server**

>   This feature had not seen greater adoption and was now removed. Most communication has moved to Gitter or other chat services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This feature has not seen greater adoption and has been removed. Most communication has moved to Gitter or other chat services.
```
(or "...had not seen... over the past n years...")

Get Galaxy
==========

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_21.01 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_21.01 && git pull --ff-only origin release_21.01

> See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details regarding the source code locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details on source code locations.
```

Author: Can you also update the template in scripts/bootstrap_history.py ?

Reviewer: Done.

**Removal of the communication server**
  This feature had not seen greater adoption and was now removed. Most communication has moved to Gitter or other chat services.

Get Galaxy
==========

The code lives at `GitHub <https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy>`__ and you should have `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ to obtain it.

To get a new Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git clone -b release_21.01 https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy.git

To update an existing Galaxy repository run:
  .. code-block:: shell

      $ git fetch origin && git checkout release_21.01 && git pull --ff-only origin release_21.01

See the `community hub <https://galaxyproject.org/develop/source-code/>`__ for additional details regarding the source code locations.

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features and reporting many bugs:

> - `Assunta DeSanto <https://github.com/assuntad23>`_
> - `David López <https://github.com/davelopez>`_
> - `Jayadev Joshi <https://github.com/jaidevjoshi83>`_
> - `John Chilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`_
> - `Keith Suderman <https://github.com/ksuderman>`_
> - `Luke Sargent <https://github.com/luke-c-sargent>`_
> - `Sergey Golitsynskiy <https://github.com/ic4f>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Assunta DeSanto <https://github.com/assuntad23>`_
- `David López <https://github.com/davelopez>`_
- `John Chilton <https://github.com/jmchilton>`_
- `Keith Suderman <https://github.com/ksuderman>`_
- `Sergey Golitsynskiy <https://github.com/ic4f>`_
```
Jay and Luke will be included in the same section in the 20.09 release notes.
